I am still in the polar circle, so today's guest video was made by Collin Rodefer
from the Collin Sphere Travel Vlog, he is in China.
Pleasant to meet, my name is Collin and we are here in beautiful Shanghai, China.
As a residence of tens of millions of people,
Shanghai is one of the largest cities in the world.
You may know some things you can do in Shanghai,
such as the Bund, the Nanjing Lu,
and even the new Disneyland.
But despite the huge population,
you might be surprised that here, in the city,
a completely new villages are almost completely empty.
Modern ghost towns.
At the end of metro line 9 is Thames Town,
a ghost town in English style, with street names like Prince and Harry Street.
It is, as you can expect from a replica village with many statues
from well-known people from English history and culture.
This town was made to offer a place to the thriving municipality.
And with shops that are "open",
you have to look carefully before you realize that the fresh fruit,
behind the windows, actually being fake
and that these stores, in fact, are empty.
When you meet people,
you immediately see that this town is more of a tourist place,
and even a background for wedding photos.
Thames Town is one of the nine Western cities built in 2006
on the outskirts of Shanghai.
To absorb the hustle and bustle from the city center.
It would have cost ¥ 5,000,000,000,
and offers a residence for 10,000 people.
The only goal was to house students and staff from the nine universities
from the nearby Sonjiang University city.
As you might see, ten years later,
that did not happen.
After walking the perimeter of the place,
what only one square kilometer country occupies,
and seeing nothing but empty houses,
I decided to try my luck and go to the center
to see what to do in Thames Town
on a summer evening at the weekend.
Nothing.
So why did this happen?
Why did this fail?
When the town was finished,
the vast majority of the houses have been bought by wealthy investors and individuals
to start business here and as a second home.
And of course, if the demand rises, the price rises,
and in this case the price shot up,
making it too expensive for universities to offer accommodation
for their students and staff.
So, with the majority of homes purchased,
there are a lot of empty stores, and all stores
try to serve 1,000 people
while the population should be tenfold.
If you think of a ghost town,
You may think of old American cities that you often see in films
with the well-known tumbler in the background.
The difference between a town like that and this ghost town,
is that there was once a community in those old cities
and we now only have the remains of buildings
- here everything is new and clean, and is just
present.
If you walk through this town, you will definitely get a creepy feeling,
and it almost feels like the Truman Show,
you know people live here,
but it all feels a bit fake.
I would say that is the best way to describe this
is the feeling of a Hollywood set.
But behind closed doors it does not feel like Hollywood,
and you get a totally different feeling.
After some searching, I found a small cafe called Andy Coffee,
and with counter counters and chairs thrown around,
you get the feeling that the previous owner has just left.
As if they had to flee quickly.
At that moment I felt pretty paranoid, but afterwards,
I should have sat there and made coffee for myself.
The thought that I was trying to get rid of
is that an actual community is where people really live,
instead of just a tourist attraction.
And there are many reasons why this has been compared with the EPCOT center,
and I have to remind myself that I can stay here for as long as I want.
There is no closing time.
It's pretty interesting here, and would I want to live here?
Certainly.
Certainly, if I could afford it.
If you were to ask me how British really feels this place,
I would say that, on every Chinese text on every street corner,
and other things, such as bamboo scaffolding,
it would be difficult to pinpoint the difference between Thames Town and a real English
Place.
Of course you can hardly go about the small details,
like the windows that are a bit bigger,
but that is simply the preference of Chinese culture.
The middle way consists of the eternal love of tea, of the Chinese and British.
Whether this place is a success or not is not my choice.
And, despite the fact that the place does not meet its original purpose,
the fact that the majority of the properties have been bought,
and the fact that China is building another city in Beijing,
tells me they see something of value in these small western towns.
Once again, I am Collin, and thank you for sharing this wonderful experience with me.
Thank you, Collin!
Subscribe to his channel,
a link is in the description and on the screen.
He has a lot of good videos like this.
And what I like about this replica of London
is that it has the same problem with rising house prices as real London.
Next time, the last guest video,
and it's about something you've probably seen and did not want to see.